• Encapsulation

Is the simple idea of hiding the data/variables.  This is to stop anyone from accessing the variables directly and modifying it for their own use.
typically this is achieved by using the private modifier and providing getters and setters for the developers to use. this keeps the code intact within the class
, allows for the class to have control over its own variables and any important data will be read only.


• Inheritance

Inheritance is using the variables/methods used in another class(superclass). Inheritance is the mechanism of which one object aquires all the properties 
and behaviours of the class extended. Inheritance is typically used for related classes and this keeps the code clean and
removes duplicate methods by reusing those created in the parent class. When you are developing, you be find your self in a situation where you need methods used in a certain class you already created.
This uses the concept typically defined as IS-A relationship which means the subclass becomes the same type and is then able to inherit behavior , 
this allows use of the provided methods as well as any methods which you will use in this addition to those already defined within the parent. 



• Polymorphism


Polymorphism is different forms of the same thing. This is typically represented by initialising a parent reference to a child object. We can use polymorphism in Java by
using overloading and overriding.

Overloading: means the use of several exact named methods with different properties/arguments. Java would know which to call by the arguments and signiture.

Overriding: the ability to use parent methods but override thier output for subclasses. This is a great feature which is convenient and helps to reduce code and duplicated methods/variables.



• Abstraction

Abstraction is hiding the implementation. So you may know what is returned but not how it is returned. This is achieved through the use of abstact classes and interfaces.
An interface or abstract class is something which is not concrete , something which is incomplete. In order to use abstract classes or interfaces, abstract methods must be made concrete.
A use of abstract classes is when you know something must exist but not sure what it will look like or how it will be computed.


